[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: If you're one
of the fortunate people who've
been to the great
sites in Egypt,
you may have been
struck by the largeness
and majesty of the
pyramids and statues.
But did you ever stop and wonder
how this artisanship could've
been produced thousands of years
before any mechanical tools?
Christopher Dunn could
think of nothing else
as he stood before
Ramesses II at Luxor.
Dunn came to the conclusion
that the absolute symmetry
and perfection of
Ramesses' face could only
have been done with advanced
engineering and tools.
I was able to meet up with
Christopher at the Yuga Cycles
Conference in Nevada
City recently where
he shared his story.
Christopher, what's
so interesting to me
is that not thousands, not even
hundreds of thousands, millions
of people have walked by and
through the same edifices,
past the same beautiful face
of Ramesses that you have,
and yet, they don't ask some
really essential questions
that you have asked.
And now in this
field, you're being
heralded as having done some
incredible work because you're
bringing the proofs to the table
that these incredible statues
were not just random
works by primitives.
>>CHRIS DUNN: No.
Absolutely not.
>>REGINA: We're going
to go into that,
but before we go into
your work on the geometry
and the perfection, the
mechanical perfection
of these famous not only
dwellings, but also statues,
works of stone
art, I want to talk
about the civilizations--
disappearance of civilizations.
Because it seems that we're left
with so little after the time
passes.
Can you tell us how an
entire civilization simply
disappears, disintegrates?
Even what would happen
with our own civilization
with what we have
in it right now?
How's that work?
>>DUNN: Well, you know it's an
interesting question, actually
central to the whole discussion
of ancient civilizations
and what level of technology
they may have had.
We don't have any
problem discussing
end of the world
scenarios today.
In fact, we say that it's not a
matter of if something is going
to happen, an earthquake
or some major disturbance,
a super volcano,
something like that,
because they have
happened in the past.
It's a matter of when they're
going to happen again.
And so that's a part of
the modern narrative,
in terms of what may
lie ahead in the future.
Now, when we look into the past
and we discuss the destruction
of civilizations in the
past, several methods
have been proposed.
And either one of
them-- any of them
could actually take our
civilization down and send us
back to a medieval
primitive society
with a lot of destruction.
So if we go back to
75,000 years ago,
when the volcano
Toba was released--
it released a massive
amount of energy--
there was a destruction of
humanity on a very, very
large scale and what they call
an extinction event, where
the people on the
planet were reduced
to just a few thousand
people around the globe,
and then they had to build back.
But that was 75,000 years ago.
Now when it comes to
looking at ancient sites
and looking at the, say,
the pyramids and the temples
in Egypt and some of the
marvelous architecture,
and the statues, there
is a huge disconnect
between what we know that's
in the archaeological record,
in terms of the tools that
were available at that time,
and what we see.
And as an engineer, when
I look at the tools that
are offered by
Egyptologists in museums
and also that they
describe in books,
and when I compare
that to the artifacts
that I'm studying as an
engineer, the two don't fit.
Because it would be impossible
to create, say, a Ramesses
statue with a stone chisel and
a wooden hammer or just grinding
it out with sand and bone
or something like that.
I mean, it's just a ridiculous
notion to think of it that way.
>>REGINA: And yet, that's
what is still being taught.
>>DUNN: That's what
kids have been taught.
>>REGINA: That's what's being
taught in our universities.
>>DUNN: That's what
is being taught, yes.
And when we look at the era
where these ideas were actually
presented and then handed down
through the education system,
you have to go back to the
early days of Egyptology, which
is back in the 1800s, when
William Flinders Petrie was
in Egypt and his studies.
Well, you go back
to that period,
you're looking at a
Victorian mindset.
And so without actually having
to replicate the most difficult
aspects of the work, which is
really-- the real challenge is
to actually take those tools
and replicate what the ancient
Egyptians did.
And nobody's been able to do it.
>>REGINA: Even today.
>>DUNN: Even today.
>>REGINA: With the
sophisticated--
>>DUNN: Not with the
tools-- not with the tools
that were in the
Egyptian's toolbox.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DUNN: Now, I know it seems
to be a very popular idea
that the tools to do this
work are not available today,
but that's because
a lot of people
don't really understand what
tools are available today
to perform the work.
And there are tools,
very sophisticated tools.
And there's also
simple tools that
could be applied to recreate
some of these artifacts.
It would stretch our
capabilities to do that.
But certainly we could
employ our modern tools
to perform a lot of the work
that the ancient Egyptians did.
>>REGINA: Yes, but we're
talking modern tools.
Not tools from 5,000 years ago.
Or 3,000 or 4,000
or 5,000 years ago,
which is what we're looking
at in the case of most
of this work, right?
>>DUNN: Yes.
The ancient Egyptian toolbox
had copper chisels, copper adze,
stone chisels, stone balls
for bashing the stone.
And then just what we
know primitive people did
to shape materials, which is
take some sand, a piece of bone
or a piece of wood or another
stone and just rub it away.
Just keep rubbing, rubbing,
rubbing until you come
to the final shape.
>>REGINA: What
stands-- also, you're
talking granite
and quartzite, some
of the toughest
materials on the planet.
>>DUNN: Right.
And the ancient
Egyptians were actually
cutting the igneous
rocks, granite, basalt,
and they were cutting it with
efficiency and precision.
And the geometry, the perfection
is cut into the stone.
And also the geometry,
which is remarkable.
>>REGINA: And some of it's
almost as smooth as glass,
when you're looking at the
lack of imperfections in it,
which we will go into once we
start getting into Ramesses'
headdress and Ramesses'
face, the crown and so forth.
It's fascinating what
you've come up with.
And you've been many
times over there,
you've taken lots
of measurements,
lots of photographs
because you wanted
to nail this thing
once and for all
and get this story of
primitives off the table.
Not that it's off the
table in academic circles.
And this is a big fight
with you, Robert Schoch,
a lot of the other
presenters here
and many conferences
I've been to.
The big question
is what is it going
to take before academia will
open up to the new evidence.
But meanwhile,
when we're looking
at disappearing technologies
and civilizations,
there was one quirky little
fact in your book I just loved.
And it was about
the-- I believe it
was about the
engine, the starting
mechanism on the engine in
the original space missions
to the moon.
>>DUNN: Yes.
That was written by
Dr. Alan Andrews,
who is a mechanical engineer.
And he worked at the White
House for a few years.
He wrote the forward to-- one
of the forwards to my book.
And he was meeting
with a NASA scientist
and they were talking
about lost technologies.
And we talk about lost
technologies of the past,
and he referred to
the lost technologies
of the present, where the
Saturn V engine, there's
nobody around that actually
knows the starting sequence
or how to do it.
Evidently, they took it
to the grave with them.
And there's a lot of that.
I mean, there's a lot of modern
technologies that are obsolete.
Or relatively modern,
that have been
created since the start of
the Industrial Revolution.
They've become obsolete and
we employ new technologies.
The pace is dizzying in a way.
>>REGINA: It is dizzying now,
and so we are perpetually
looking for these missing links.
>>DUNN: Yes, the missing links.
And today though, when
we look into the past,
our tools are more
sophisticated and we
are better-equipped to
actually study the past
and actually gather
that information.
So I think there
should be-- I'm not
saying that academic
Egyptologists would not
eventually come around to
it or what it would take.
If they don't-- usually they
will follow the crowd or follow
the money.
And when you're actually
following a particular path
and you look behind you and you
find out nobody's behind you
following you, I think
that's when they'll probably
get the picture.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Very good point.
Now what's interesting, I
find, about all of this,
and I think in some of
Edgar Casey's work, which
went fairly deeply into what
the times and life in Egypt
were like, and even more
ancient civilizations
than that, which is fascinating.
And through another
source I was once told,
the Egyptians didn't
do anything, especially
in what was left
behind, that did not
have very specific
purpose behind it.
These aren't random,
willy-nilly pieces of artwork.
Every one of these
things has purpose
that we're walking by thinking,
oh, isn't that special?
This beautiful
40-foot tall statue,
wonder what that was all about?
And that's how the average
tourist goes under it.
Now, you have
studied Ramesses II
in particular over and
over and over again as
kind of a hallmark
or a touchstone
into this new field
of understanding.
Talk about your
personal experience,
how this began,
and then let's go
into what you
started discovering.
>>DUNN: Well, if you consider
that the temples are there
to educate, they educate
on many different levels.
And the education I
received was, originally
I went to the temples
without much interest
in what the temples
were about, because I
was more interested
in engineering stuff.
So I didn't go to the
temples when I first
went to Egypt in 1986.
But I do go to Memphis,
there, the Saqqara,
and I saw the Ramesses there.
And I thought, well,
that's a well-made statue.
It's beautiful.
One of the things that
really was significant to me
was that the nostrils
were identical.
If you look down the
length of it and you say,
well, those nostrils
are identical.
>>REGINA: Probably the only
person that ever thought that.
>>DUNN: Yeah.
Why would I be talking
about nostrils?
But it seemed significant to
me, because nobody's nostrils
are identical or symmetrical.
So I filed that away.
I thought it was just something
that I noted and that was it.
And then the next time it
became more relevant was in 2004
and I was going into
the Luxor Temple, which
is-- that is very experiential.
You are overcome when you
go into the Luxor Temple
because of the grandeur,
the majesty of the statues,
the columns and the way
they actually present
the whole temple at
night when it's lit up
and it's absolutely gorgeous.
But I was distracted.
The Egyptologist was talking
about the history of Ramesses
and the kings and
the hieroglyphs
on the wall and the reliefs and
what they meant symbolically.
My interest was more-- was drawn
towards some granite artifacts
that were kind of
shining in the dusk.
And I walk over to one and I ran
my hand over the surface of it.
>>REGINA: That must
have been in the days
when you could
touch things still.
>>DUNN: Yes, it was.
And I just ran my hand over it
and I said, this is perfect.
I mean, it just felt
really, really smooth.
Almost like I can
recall in manufacturing,
making manufacturing dies
to make different objects.
And they have to be very
precise, very smooth.
And it was just like
running my hand over a die.
But it was made out of granite.
And what they were was a
white crown of upper Egypt.
And these are conical
shaped crowns.
These things,
though, were large.
The raw block probably
would've weighed about a ton,
and they sit on the
top of the statues.
Well, these had obviously
fallen off in antiquity
and now they sit in front of the
statues in the Ramesses Hall.
So that was my first hint that
there was something special
about the Ramesses statue,
because the quality of the work
was-- not only were they
incredibly beautiful,
mysterious in a way, but the
engineer's side of my brain
wanted to know more from
a factual perspective,
and to actually take
some measurements
and study them more so
I could find out just
exactly how the ancient
Egyptians made these things.
Well, that stayed with
me for a couple of years.
I didn't have time to go back.
We were on a tour and
I didn't have time
to go back and do
any further studies.
But I went back in 2006
and I took a digital camera
this time.
And as a side note, I would
say that digital cameras,
the way they have
evolved today--
I've been employed
in manufacturing
and they are very
prolific in manufacturing.
So we use them in
manufacturing to examine
artifacts of modern day.
And we can measure them through
digital data that we acquire
and computers.
And we can also take them
and send to customers
if there is a question
about a particular feature.
So the digital camera has become
a real force in manufacturing
for metrology and measurement.
And so I took a digital camera
the next time and my laptop.
Well, the thing I
wanted to do was
to take photographs of
the statue, the crowns,
and take the photograph
on the central axis
so I could determine the
symmetry and the geometry.
And what I found was perfect
symmetry, and perfect geometry.
>>REGINA: And the
slide that shows
that, it's really quite
shocking because what
are we talking about
dimension-wise,
say from one cheekbone
to another in feet?
>>DUNN: Well, I estimated that
the Ramesses face is probably
about 30-inches across.
And I could only do
that by comparing
a photograph and a
person standing by it
and knowing the width
of a human head.
And then scaling it
up to the Ramesses
and then determining
what the dimension was.
But to get a really accurate
measure, a definitive measure,
you'd have to have
physical tools
and actually take measurements.
>>REGINA: Just rough--yeah.
That's what I was looking
just kind of roughly
to get the idea of scale.
>>DUNN: It's roughly six times
the size of a human head.
But the Ramesses
face itself, as you
know-- when you go through a
museum, you'll see statues,
you'll see art,
you'll see sculptures
and all kinds of
things of beauty
that are there for you to enjoy.
In three dimension, as you walk
around them, the point of view
is constantly changing.
And so, the Ramesses statue,
as you walk around it,
you get a different perspective
at each step around it.
But you're not looking at
it the way the engineers
or the designers were.
Because encoded in the
statue, I discovered,
was a specific geometry.
And because they had made so
many of the Ramesses statues,
over 100, that
geometry would have
had to have been applied
on every single one
in order to make the face.
>>REGINA: So these
were manufactured.
>>DUNN: Manufactured
statues, yeah.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
And the same geometry?
>>DUNN: The same geometry.
The same geometric
protocol that was
carried from one statue to the
next to the next to the next,
not left to the whims of
a sculptor and a hammer
and chisel.
But, you know, clearly
disciplined and precise
reproduction of each statue.
Quite incredible.
>>REGINA: It's
absolutely incredible.
And again, it's
incredible particularly
because we're looking
through the lens of what
is being taught to this
point in terms of the source.
The source materials,
the source skills
and talents and
aptitudes of people
back in that period of time,
which is obviously not correct.
>>DUNN: Not correct, no.
>>REGINA: Not correct at all.
And let's talk a little
bit about the headpieces
that you're talking about, the
crowns you're talking about,
just to give people an
idea of what these are,
what they're called,
what they represent,
and why they're
historically thought
to be on the head of
the kings and Pharaohs.
>>DUNN: Well, the crowns
of upper and lower Egypt
are actually combined
in some of the crowns
on the statues of Ramesses.
So you would have the white
crown and the red crown
of lower Egypt together.
>>REGINA: When we see
the really tall ones
that have the the ball on top?
>>DUNN: Right.
And the interesting
thing about those
crowns as I found out as
I started to delve deeper,
it was like peeling an onion.
You've got one layer after
another, so you do an analysis.
That gives you certain data.
And then you ask
further questions
and then you go a little
deeper, a little deeper.
And through that process,
I was able to determine
that those crowns are
actually ellipsoids,
physical ellipsoids, tilted
back on the head of Ramesses.
>>REGINA: Now, tell us
the significance of this
if we don't understand
as lay people.
>>DUNN: Because the ellipse,
just the concept of the ellipse
was not discussed
until the Greeks,
according to our history.
And so, the Greeks were the
first to actually present
an ellipse and discuss
the math behind it
and the design behind it.
And so here you have
in Egypt a prolific use
of not just an ellipse, which
is a 2-dimensional drawing,
but an ellipsoid which
is a 3-dimensional solid.
And the elements
of the ellipse is--
ellipsoids that are
in the white crowns
can marry to the red crown
are quite clear once you're
able to study it in a
CAD Cam or CAD program
and define the geometry of
it, which is what I did.
And it's an amazing testament
to the ancient Egyptians
and it was an
inspiring discovery.
>>REGINA: Aren't
we finding, though,
through a lot of
different sciences
that are approaching looking
at our historical roots
and the history of
knowledge and what
we have on the planet
today, aren't they
beginning to discover that it
didn't start with the Greeks.
More and more evidence
is coming to the surface
that a lot of what has been
given credit to the Greeks
was actually from a
previous time handed down
to them from the Egyptians.
>>DUNN: Yeah.
Well, I mean it is--
Pythagoras was supposed
to have entered the
Egyptian Mystery Schools
and he probably learned
the 3-4-5 triangle
from the Egyptians.
And so the information
may have been discussed
in cloistered rooms where
just the high priest had
that knowledge.
It may have been handed down
through the oral tradition
or from generation
to generation,
like a guild or
something of that nature,
but not available to
the general public.
But when you actually
understand the geometry
and you understand
how things are made,
you can see that all the
elements that we credit
the Greeks with
being the first--
the geometry that we credit
the Greeks with inventing--
were already known
by the Egyptians.
>>REGINA: Those are thousands
of years prior to that.
>>DUNN: Thousands of
years before that.
>>REGINA: OK, so now
let's get into it
from a mechanical
engineering point of view.
How would you guess they
were able to achieve
this kind of perfection?
And when you're looking
at the face, as you said,
the symmetry of
every single feature
on the face right
down to the nostrils,
and the symmetry
of the nostrils.
If you were trying to
kind of-- if you could
be a fly on the
wall back then, how
would you guess they
went about that?
Through what means?
>>DUNN: If I was an
engineer, say 50 years ago,
with the tools that were
available to us 50 years ago,
and we were looking
at these statues
and talking about them like
we are now, we'd have to say,
OK, well, obviously they were
using some kind of templates
and they had an
arrangement of templates.
And they were fitting
these templates
on the face to make sure
that the symmetry was there,
and then blending between where
they had cut to the template.
>>REGINA: Would
that be a stretch
to assume that there was
a template of some kind?
Or would that just be the
best you could come up
with considering it
was 50 years ago?
>>DUNN: That would be something
that an engineer 50 years ago
would probably discuss.
But, however, when
you get into examining
tool marks and the difference
between hand-working
or sculpting, or hand-working
and then machine-working,
you have distinct differences in
the tool marks that they leave.
Because a machine
would leave a path,
there would be a precise
path that the tool followed.
So when you combine the geometry
and you combine the precision
with the evidence of a tool mark
that follows in parallel paths
down a particular object, then
you've got all the evidence,
you've got these
ghost marks, you've
got the precision, geometry,
and you're actually
removing from the equation
the craftsman with a chisel.
>>REGINA: So that
was what it wasn't.
>>DUNN: So that's
what it wasn't.
So they actually had to
have been using machines
to create these things.
But that's not
the only evidence.
We're just talking about
Ramesses right now.
But then you start
looking elsewhere,
and you find clearer
evidence of machines.
But it's mind blowing.
And it's almost
unbelievable in a sense
that you can
conclude very clearly
that the ancient Egyptians were
so advanced that they would
have used very,
very precise machine
tools in making statues.
Just in statues.
And that is an
incredible statement.
>>REGINA: To say nothing of the
temples and the great edifices.
>>DUNN: And then when you start
looking at everything else,
I was impressed
with the pyramids.
And I still am, of course.
>>REGINA: Well, yes.
"Giza Power Plant."
I saw you in a lecture, I
think, in 2006 in Sedona
presenting on that subject.
And we're going
to get into that.
In fact, launch into it.
>>DUNN: Well, anyway, the theory
I presented in "The Giza Power
Plant" was very, very radical
and explosive, nonconventional.
It made some people happy,
a lot of people mad.
But it was a very, very
nonconventional theory.
The idea that the
ancient Egyptians
had machine tools of such
a high order of precision
and efficiency has not
really settled well
with even the general population
because there are no machines.
People say, well,
where are the machines?
And the problem is
is the engineers
who look at this, who they can
visualize the machine tools,
they can visualize the
tools that were actually
used to make them,
and they can look
at the ancient Egyptian
toolbox and they can say,
oh no, there's no way.
But the lay person, and
it's no fault of anybody,
haven't even been around a
machine, so they don't know.
And so we visualize the machines
actually doing this work,
and we can recreate
machines, according
to the technologies
that we have today.
Some people may think that
the ancient Egyptians were
even more advanced than we are.
And that may be.
But it would be a
stretch for-- it
would stretch our capabilities.
Who would actually sit
down and decide, oh,
I'm going to build this statue
that's going to weigh 600 tons,
and it's going to be
ultra-precise and the granite
is going to cost
about $500,000--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DUNN: -by the time
you got it quarried.
>>REGINA: And we're going
to do about 100 of them.
>>DUNN: So even though right
now the Ramesses statues
are priceless, if we
had to recreate them,
it'd probably cost half a
billion dollars to do it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And in addition, you
have to start looking at,
OK, let's say we can accept now
that everybody watching this
is beginning to understand
what we've been told
and what we're being
told in academic circles
about the world history
and the history of Egypt
is no longer accurate.
It's invalid.
We need to start
moving beyond that.
We have a new story.
This was a highly
advanced civilization
that had mechanical
tools to build
very precise buildings,
temples, artwork.
Then you start looking at a
really more esoteric question,
which is why?
All this was left
behind for purpose.
What would happen if we
disappeared right now,
everything in digital files,
what would be left of us
besides a rusted out Chevy
truck here and there.
I mean, really, what
would be left of us?
>>DUNN: Nothing.
>>REGINA: Very little
would be left of us,
and we're considered kind of
the height of sophistication
in many people's minds still.
They left behind information
that is so deeply embedded
and encoded within
the hieroglyphics,
within the statues, within the
dimensions, the elliptoids,
doesn't all of this start
relating to something larger?
I mean, we're at a
Yuga Cycle Conference,
which is the cycles of
awareness and consciousness.
How does this start
fitting in the why?
>>DUNN: That is one of
the deepest questions.
The why.
Our civilization, much
of what we've created
would disappear over
a period of time.
I mean, our concrete roads,
asphalt roads, and automobiles.
The show "Life After People,"
was a very good description.
>>REGINA: I haven't seen it yet.
Yeah, I'd like to see it.
>>DUNN: I mean, it's
another of those--
it's part of the dialogue about
end of the world scenarios
where, if something happens
to our civilization,
this is what's going to happen.
This started out in the 1970s,
the Office of Technology
Assessment at the White House.
They wondered what would
happen after a nuclear war,
and they did a study on that.
And we'd essentially be returned
back to a medieval society.
We'd have machine tools
that we couldn't operate
because we wouldn't
have any electricity.
>>REGINA: No paper
trail, that's all dust.
>>DUNN: Right.
And then what would we do
with the machine tools?
We'd cut them up,
tear them down.
We'd use them for other stuff.
And eventually, they
would rust away.
>>REGINA: But you're
saying what happened
in ancient civilizations too.
As our consciousness devolved,
a lot of what was lying about
would be, as you say, melted
down, reused, re-purposed.
>>DUNN: And the
ancient Egyptians,
though, they built for eternity.
And they built in hard
igneous rock and, you know,
massive elements: massive blocks
of granite, diorite, limestone.
All stones they built
with are just-- they're
incredible, incredible.
And so much of it
all over the country.
They're finding
more every day, too.
So they did the two scenarios,
and I think you touched on one,
and that was did they
create this intentionally
because they knew the
world was going to end
and they wanted to leave
something for the future?
That is one question.
The other one is, was it
just that their civilization
and what was
important to them, it
was important enough
that they would actually
create something that would
last, that was impervious.
And so, which scenario
would you go with?
I don't know if the ancient
Egyptians were building
for the benefit of
future civilizations.
I think they were--
it may be both.
>>REGINA: It may be both.
>>DUNN: It may be both.
Everybody needs to think
about the next generation,
because we do carry
on into the future.
And what do we leave
future generations?
>>REGINA: Well, yes.
And it's been suggested
that if we truly
understood what was in those
hieroglyphics, what they
actually mean, that that's a
pathway back to our future.
>>DUNN: Yes.
The hieroglyphics, that's a
totally different subject.
And I am not an expert
on hieroglyphics.
>>REGINA: I know you're not.
I know you're not, but
you've been around enough.
And you've certainly been around
enough of these other players.
>>DUNN: There's some-- Yeah.
I have another
collection of photographs
that I haven't published yet,
and I'm probably not going
to talk about it right now, but
they are taken in the temples.
And they are, when
viewed a certain way,
they are quite interesting.
>>REGINA: Well, you
have a mind that
views things in a certain way.
And I know you
can't talk about it
too much, because it may
be the work that you want
to put together and really
think about and assemble
for your next book,
but can you give us
just a glimpse of your
feelings or your impressions
of what you were looking at
when viewed a certain way?
I know that's a little
sneaky, but that's the juice.
>>DUNN: Just like the
statues, the physical objects,
when you look at them in a
particular and very specific
way, they have
another story to tell.
And then some of the reliefs,
not necessarily hieroglyphs
because there are reliefs on
some temple walls that really
have a very loose, murky
interpretation, not a very
clear interpretation.
But if you look at those
in a particular way,
then they provide another story.
And that's all I
can say right now.
>>REGINA: Well, a
couple of other people
that we've interviewed
in the past
have indicated that
some of these images
may even point to advanced
technology devices that
may have existed at that time.
There's the famous
one you see floating
about that appears
to be a helicopter.
We have a lot of these
anomalous things like--
>>DUNN: I went to Abydos and I
photographed the famous Abydos
helicopter.
And I used a telephoto
lens, so that I
could get a really good
close-up image of it,
and then look at it,
examine it in my computer.
And I'm not afraid
to say, I must
say that the
Egyptologists are correct.
That it is a combination--
they call it a palimpsest.
So it's a combination of an
earlier relief or inscription
and then it's been changed
and added over time.
>>REGINA: And added to.
And that's what you see from
an engineering point of view.
>>DUNN: And even from an
engineering point of view,
or even an aerospace
if you look at it, it would
never work as a helicopter
because it doesn't have
a tail rotor on it and--
>>REGINA: Yes, some
missing pieces.
>>DUNN: -and the
horizontal rotor
would clip off the
stabilizer at the back.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
Well, it's nice to clear that
up because that's something
that-- everybody
throws that picture up.
>>DUNN: Yes.
And, you know, I think you have
to call it the way you see it.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DUNN: Because the one
thing that we don't want
is confusion.
And everybody has a
right to be wrong,
and everybody has the
opportunity to be reeducated.
So I'm happy to take
anything on board
that would improve my
knowledge of the subject.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And it's juicy and fun to
think that that's a helicopter.
Everybody loves
speculating about that.
And there are some other
genuinely intriguing images
that point to things that
could indicate what's coming up
for us in the future with some
of our technologies and devices
and so forth.
But I agree with you.
The whole point of
doing the work you're
doing so meticulously is
to dispel misperceptions
about the past, so you've
got to be fair about it.
And if it means you take
away our little helicopter,
well, fine.
That's just fine.
That's one small thing.
So anyone that was
really attached
to the helicopter, bye-bye
for now on that one
unless there's other
evidence presented.
>>DUNN: Well, that's
just my analysis of it.
Other people may disagree
with me, that's fine.
>>REGINA: That's right.
This is an open dialogue.
Now, one area you
opened up a lot--
and we just touched on it
before in "The Giza Power
Plant," which was
your previous work,
was your very close examination
of the King's Chamber,
the Queen's Chamber, the
Great Pyramids at Giza.
And you came to some rather
startling conclusions
as you really went--
you went through this.
And some of it is
being now validated,
from what I heard you
say even this morning.
We have time.
Tell us what you discovered
in your work at the pyramids
and what's been validated, and
what they may have actually
been built for to begin with.
Let's just put this aside.
These were not elaborate tombs.
>>DUNN: Right.
So if we take it
from the ground up.
"The Giza Power Plant"
was published in 1998,
and it proposed a theory that
the great pyramid was not
a tomb.
None of the pyramids
were tombs originally.
Some of them were used
later to be tombs,
but there were no original
burials in pyramids.
So the pyramids are not tombs.
And I focused particularly
on the Great Pyramid because
of the design that
was available,
and most information available
is about the Great Pyramid.
So in examining that
question, if they
weren't tombs, what were they,
I focused on all the evidence.
And the test that I had for
myself was every single feature
in the Great Pyramid has
to have an explanation
for a theory in order
for the theory to fit.
And any information that was
forthcoming in the future
had to either
support the theory,
or the theory must be
changed or thrown out.
>>REGINA: You were
doing it scientifically.
>>DUNN: Yes.
You've got to follow the
scientific method, yes.
And so the basic hypothesis
was that the Great Pyramid
was a coupled
oscillator that vibrated
in sympathy with the Earth.
>>REGINA: And explain
what that means,
a coupled oscillator
that vibrates in sympathy
with the Earth to us.
>>DUNN: Well, a
coupled oscillator
would be a vibrating
body, like a tuning fork.
And if you put a tuning
fork on a vibratory object,
then the tuning fork would
vibrate in sympathy with it.
And the transfer
of energy would be
maximized if the frequencies
were matched harmonically.
So it's like striking
a C on the piano,
and an octave higher, you
have two harmonic frequencies.
And if you would strike
one note on the piano,
other strings would vibrate
in sympathy with that one note
if you left the
strings undampened.
So it's a transfer of energy.
But the coupled oscillator
is a vibrating body
that is attached to a
larger vibrating body.
And as long as the larger
vibrating body continues
to give up energy, then
that coupled oscillator
will absorb it and vibrate
in sympathy with it.
>>REGINA: And the larger
entity was the Earth.
So you have the Earth and you
have the pyramid vibrating
at roughly the same
frequency and the same tone.
There's a tone that's affiliated
with this on this scale, right?
>>DUNN: Yes.
The Earth has many frequencies.
And in fact, it was
in, I think, 1997
when they discovered
that the Earth had a hum.
But the hum was detected
through seismic frequencies
because we have many seismic
events in the Earth every day,
but those seismic events
were causing the Earth
to ring like a bell.
So they have these frequencies.
And they were plumbed
out of a lot of data
and say, oh, this has a hum.
And the hum is, I think, between
2 and 10 Hertz or something
like that.
It's very infrasonic frequency.
>>REGINA: And the sound
is an F sharp, right?
Or that's the sound
of the pyramid.
>>DUNN: The F sharp, F
sharp is the frequency
inside the King's Chamber.
And the interesting thing
about that frequency
is that Tom Danley, who
is an acoustics engineer,
did some studies in the
Great Pyramid in 1995,
and he detected a chord, an F
sharp chord that was actually
still resonant
within that chamber.
With all external sources
of energy or sound
turned off that
would stimulate that,
his equipment detected a
very, very low F sharp chord.
Infrasonic between
2 and 9 Hertz,
but it was still humming.
>>REGINA: And when you
showed in your presentation,
as I recall-- I
don't have the notes.
It was six years ago.
But I remember the
photographs of the shafts.
And I think there was
even some baffling
of some kind in those shafts.
How do those shafts
play acoustically?
How does that play into the
acoustic theory of the chamber?
>>DUNN: I think the baffling
that you are referring to,
or the resonate, is
in the Grand Gallery.
And the Grand Gallery is--
it's a passageway that
is about 82-inches
wide at the bottom,
42-inches wide at the top.
It's about 28-feet high.
And so that passageway,
which is about 175-feet long,
it has two slots on both sides.
And there's 27 pair of
these slots going up
the length of the gallery.
But there are some
characteristics
of the gallery that other
researchers have detected.
And it has acoustic
properties in that
any sound that's generated
within that space
is directed through
the passageway
and it resonates in the King's
Chamber, the so-called King's
Chamber.
So that was a clue that this was
a very, very specially-designed
space.
And with the slots and the
Giza power plant theory,
I proposed they had resonators
that absorbed the energy coming
through the pyramid
and turned that energy
into airborne sound.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
So it was generating sound
from-- the external aspect
of the pyramid was generating
sound, or only internally?
>>DUNN: Internally.
Yes, internally.
And the Grand Gallery, the
King's Chamber, itself,
would actually absorb
those frequencies
when the pyramid was functioning
properly, or functioning
properly.
Because there was
other equipment
that was necessary
for it to do that.
But the Grand Gallery
with all the resonators
was picking up those
vibrations from the pyramid
and actually converting them
and increasing the amplitude
of the energy and
stepping the frequency up,
and then driving the
granite to resonance.
>>REGINA: Now then, you
have to say why again?
We keep coming back to the
what can this be used for?
What was this designed for?
And I know that
there's been discovery
in other pyramids, some
interesting information coming
out of the pyramids
in Bosnia, which we're
going to be going
to in a few months.
Even what's happening
underneath having
to do with catacombs,
for example,
underneath a structure.
And there are
particular properties
that seem to regenerate people
very, very quickly, in terms
of health.
Negative ions.
All of the above.
So after you looked
at this acoustic piece
to the King's
Chamber, what did you
come to in terms
of possible uses
for that energy and
those acoustics?
What was this being used for?
>>DUNN: Well, in
order to explain
that, you have to
explain everything else.
We talked about
the Grand Gallery.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DUNN: Well, there are still
some unanswered questions
about certain features of it.
And other evidence is probably
going to be forthcoming,
as it has been since
I wrote the book.
But the function that
I propose in the book
was that the-- to explain the
subterranean chamber, which
is the lowest chamber
down the descending
passage-- about a
350-foot passage,
and then you come into this
rough pit really it looks like.
I propose that
that-- in that pit,
there was the equipment
necessary to drive
the pyramid to resonance.
So they've actually
primed-- to actually
prime the pump, so to speak.
They allow it to couple
with the Earth's vibration.
>>REGINA: Am I mistaken,
or was there water?
>>DUNN: Well, that's
an interesting question
because I had assumed
that there was
some kind of mechanical
device that was being used.
But there is another, I
think probably more efficient
and actually quite
an incredible method
of driving the
pyramid to resonance.
And it's been demonstrated.
So this work has been
performed by an engineer
by the name of John Cadman.
And he was fascinated with
the subterranean chamber
and the Pharaoh's
pump theory that
was proposed by Edward Kunkel.
And he wanted to actually
replicate Kunkel's experiment.
He found that the experiment
in the upper chambers
did not work very well.
But he could make it work with
just the subterranean chamber.
But if he eliminated one
thing in Kunkel's design,
it functioned like
a pulse generator.
And so it would just
drive a pounding pulse
through the Earth.
He was emailing me
for quite a while.
And because my mind was
turned to something different,
I didn't really pick
up on it that well.
But he was pretty persistent in
trying to get me to look at it.
So I flew out to
Washington, where
he lives, to
actually witness it.
And he had it set up on the
side of his hill near his house.
And essentially, he
had created a model
of the subterranean chamber.
And he had piping coming from a
pond, which actually simulated
the descending passage.
Water flowed
through that chamber
and then out to a waste gait
with a flapper valve on it.
So he turns a few valves, the
water starts flowing through.
And I'm walking around
and suddenly I'm
hearing, ba-boom,
ba-boom, ba-boom.
And the whole
ground-- the ground
started to shake with this beat.
>>REGINA: Almost
like a heartbeat.
>>DUNN: It was a heartbeat, yes.
It was incredible.
And it kind of like opened my
mind and my eyes, and I'm like,
this guy is onto something.
He's got something here that
would really do the job.
And this is a part of
the integral-- actually,
the prime part of the Great
Pyramid as a coupled oscillator
theory is making it work.
>>REGINA: Right.
So what are the implications
of this, this pulse generator,
this heartbeat,
this resonance up
above in the chambers,
the acoustics.
What's the implication
of all this?
How does this come together?
>>DUNN: It comes together.
>>REGINA: We're not there yet.
OK.
>>DUNN: OK, so we gather
the energy from the Earth.
And really, the pyramid
is a perfect function.
I mean, it was designed
and placed on the planet,
and represents the planet.
I mean Mother
Earth is definitely
encoded into the Great
Pyramid by its dimensions
and by the way it was designed.
So you have energy coming in
and you have a signal coming in
through the northern
shaft, and that is actually
bombarding our planet 24/7.
And it's the signal
from the universe that's
atomic hydrogen in the universe.
21 centimeters comes
through that northern shaft,
goes across to the
southern shaft.
But along the way,
something happens.
It collects energy and
it builds in energy
as it crosses to
the southern shaft.
And to explain
that, then we have
to say, oh, well, hydrogen.
Hydrogen microwave frequency?
Well, do we have hydrogen?
Then you go to the
Queen's Chamber.
And then the whole subject of
the Queen's Chamber opens up,
and this is where they
produced the hydrogen.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>DUNN: You have the southern
shaft and the northern shaft.
>>REGINA: Now we
have the power plant.
>>DUNN: So now you
have your power plant.
>>REGINA: Well, this certainly
was a multi-purpose device,
obviously.
But the degree of
technology that
would have to go into
building something that
could be utilized in
these ways, would we
be able to do that in
the same way today?
Do we have the knowledge
to do this today?
>>DUNN: You know,
I was contacted
by a physicist who specializes
in vibrational physics
in solids.
And he's working on
analysis of the acoustics.
And he read "The
Giza Power Plant,"
but he is a very intuitive
and creative physicist.
He's like Albert Einstein.
You usually find
that physicists are
more open-minded
than Egyptologists.
He's looking at the acoustics of
the Great Pyramid, particularly
the Grand Gallery and
the King's Chamber.
But he pointed out certain
acoustic signatures
within the King's Chamber.
So I'm hoping that he
will continue his research
and eventually publish.
>>REGINA: And I hope
you continue yours.
And I want to hear
about these things
that you've noticed from a
"certain perspective" when
we talk next time.
And until then, thank
you so much, Christopher.
>>DUNN: You are
more than welcome.
>>REGINA: To learn more about
Christopher's discoveries,
you can pick up a
copy of his book,
"Lost Technologies
of Ancient Egypt,"
or visit his website,
which is gizapower.com.
Meanwhile, you might
also find my interviews
with John Anthony West and
Robert Schoch very interesting
along the same line.
They can be found under
the Conscious Media Network
tab on Gaiam TV.
Until next time.
Thank you for joining
us here on Gaiam.